feat(ingest): read Confluent Cloud Stream Catalog metadata in the kafka and kafka-connect sources (#18764)
datahub-project/datahub: metadata-ingestion/docs/sources/kafka-connect/kafka-connect_post.md

- **When `false`**: Disables all topic discovery for air-gapped environments or performance optimization

#### Confluent Cloud Stream Catalog

Confluent Cloud's Stream Catalog exposes each connector together with the topics it reads or writes, plus any tags and business metadata curated in Stream Governance. Enable the `confluent_catalog` block to read it:

```yml
source:
  type: kafka-connect
  config:
    confluent_cloud_environment_id: "env-xyz123"
    confluent_cloud_cluster_id: "lkc-abc456"
    username: "your-connect-api-key"
    password: "your-connect-api-secret"

    confluent_catalog:
      enabled: true
      # Stream Catalog GraphQL lives at <schema_registry_url>/catalog/graphql
      schema_registry_url: "https://psrc-xxxxx.region.provider.confluent.cloud"
      api_key: "your-schema-registry-api-key"
      api_secret: "your-schema-registry-api-secret"

      include_tags: true # catalog tags as DataHub tags (default)
      include_business_metadata: true # catalog business metadata as custom properties (default)

      # Off by default - read the trade-off below before enabling
      include_lineage: false
```

> **Requirements**: Confluent Cloud with the **Stream Governance Advanced** package on the environment — tags and business metadata are an Advanced feature, and the catalog API returns `403` even for reads on Essentials. The Schema Registry API key also needs a role that grants Stream Catalog read access (for example `EnvironmentAdmin`, `DataSteward`, or `DataDiscovery`). This has no equivalent on self-hosted Kafka Connect — the block is ignored (with a warning) when `confluent_catalog.schema_registry_url` is not a Confluent Cloud endpoint.

Reviewer: This lists `EnvironmentAdmin` as a role that grants Stream Catalog read access, which contradicts both the live test result in the review above ("Catalog reads required the environment-scoped `DataSteward` role for our service account; `EnvironmentAdmin` alone did not grant catalog data-plane access") and `kafka_post.md:109-111`, which correctly says `EnvironmentAdmin` alone is not enough.

As written, this sends kafka-connect users down exactly the debugging path the reviewer asked to have documented away.

```suggestion
**Requirements**: Confluent Cloud with the **Stream Governance Advanced** package on the environment — tags and business metadata are an Advanced feature, and the catalog API returns `403` even for reads on Essentials. The Schema Registry API key also needs a role that grants Stream Catalog read access — in practice **DataSteward** on the environment; `EnvironmentAdmin` alone is not enough, as it administers the environment but does not carry the catalog read permission. This has no equivalent on self-hosted Kafka Connect — the block is ignored (with a warning) when `confluent_catalog.schema_registry_url` is not a Confluent Cloud endpoint.
```

Author: Done — corrected to DataSteward; EnvironmentAdmin alone is not enough.

> **Requirements**: Confluent Cloud with the **Stream Governance Advanced** package on the environment — tags and business metadata are an Advanced feature, and the catalog API returns `403` even for reads on Essentials. The Schema Registry API key also needs a role that grants Stream Catalog read access (for example **DataSteward** or **DataDiscovery** on the environment). This has no equivalent on self-hosted Kafka Connect — the block is ignored (with a warning) when `confluent_catalog.schema_registry_url` is not a Confluent Cloud endpoint.

Reviewer: **This thread was fixed on 13 Aug and then reverted by the branch's newest commit.**

`1e660b744ef` ("describe catalog access as any catalog-read role") replaced the corrected wording in both docs files. The two files now agree with each other, which is a genuine improvement over the earlier contradiction — but the new text drops the one fact that was actually verified against a live environment (`EnvironmentAdmin` does **not** grant catalog data-plane access) and adds `DataDiscovery`, which was never tested.

I realise this was you reconciling my review against cubic's opposite claim that `EnvironmentAdmin` includes catalog read. cubic was wrong on that point — the live test is the tiebreaker, and dropping the negative fact sends users down exactly the debugging path this line exists to prevent.

```suggestion
**Requirements**: Confluent Cloud with the **Stream Governance Advanced** package on the environment — tags and business metadata are an Advanced feature, and the catalog API returns `403` even for reads on Essentials. The Schema Registry API key also needs a role that grants Stream Catalog read access — in practice **DataSteward** on the environment; `EnvironmentAdmin` alone is not enough, as it administers the environment but does not carry the catalog read permission. This has no equivalent on self-hosted Kafka Connect — the block is ignored (with a warning) when `confluent_catalog.schema_registry_url` is not a Confluent Cloud endpoint.
```

If `DataDiscovery` has since been confirmed to work, keep it — but then please keep the `EnvironmentAdmin` caveat alongside it.

Author: Restored the `EnvironmentAdmin` caveat here (kept `DataSteward`, dropped the untested `DataDiscovery`). 29d4c13
